Booster architecture commands (#220)
boostercloud/booster: docs/README.md

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: 'all' | Array<RoleClass>
})
export class CommandName {
  public constructor(readonly fieldA: SomeType, 
                     readonly fieldB: SomeOtherType,
                     /* as many fields as needed */) {}

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    // Validate inputs
    // Run domain logic
    // register.events([event1,...])
  }
}
```

Every time you submit a command through the GraphQL API, Booster calls the command handler function for the given command. The Commands are part of the public API so that you can define authorization policies for them. They are also the place for validating input data before registering events into the event store because they are immutable once there.

#### Commands naming convention

> Semantic is very important in Booster as it will play an essential role in designing a coherent system. Your application should reflect your domain concepts, and commands are not an exception. Although you can name commands whatever you want, we strongly recommend you to name them starting with verbs in imperative plus the object being affected. If we were designing an e-commerce application, some commands would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic is very important in Booster as it will play an essential role in designing a coherent system. Your application should reflect your domain concepts, and commands are not an exception. Although you can name commands in any way you want, we strongly recommend you to name them starting with verbs in imperative plus the object being affected. If we were designing an e-commerce application, some commands would be:
```

- CreateProduct
- DeleteProduct
- UpdateProduct
- ChangeCartItems
- ConfirmPayment
- MoveStock
- UpdateCartShippingAddress

Additionally, commands must be within the commands directory of the project source: `project-root/src/commands`.

```text
project-root
├── src
│   ├── commands <------ They must be here
│   ├── common
│   ├── config
│   ├── entities
│   ├── events
│   ├── index.ts
│   └── read-models
```

#### Creating a command

The preferred way to create a command is by using the generator, e.g.

```shell
boost new:command CreateProduct --fields sku:SKU displayName:string description:string price:Money
```

> The generator will automatically create a file called `CreateProduct.ts` with a TypeScript class of the same name under the commands directory. You can still create the command manually. Since the generator is not doing any *magic*, all you need is a class decorated as `@Command`. Anyway, we recommend you to use the generator as much as you can because it handles the boilerplate code for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator will automatically create a file called `CreateProduct.ts` with a TypeScript class of the same name under the commands directory. You can still create the command manually. Since the generator is not doing any *magic*, all you need is a class decorated as `@Command`. Anyway, we recommend you always to use the generator, because it handles the boilerplate code for you.
```

Note:

> > Running the command generator with a `CommandName` already existing, will override the content of the current one. Soon, we will display a warning before overwriting anything. Meantime, if you missed a field, just add it to the class because in Booster, all the infrastructure and data structures are inferred from your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Running the command generator with a `CommandName` already existing, will overwrite the content of the current one. In future releases, we will display a warning before overwriting anything. Meantime, if you missed a field, just add it to the class because, in Booster, all the infrastructure and data structures are inferred from your code.
```

#### The command handler function

> Booster generates the command handler function as a method of the command class. That function is called by the framework every time its command is submitted. It is the place to run validations, return errors, query entities to make decisions, and register relevant domain events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Booster generates the command handler function as a method of the command class. That function is called by the framework every time that one instance of this command is submitted. This is the right place to run validations, return errors, query entities to make decisions and register relevant domain events.
```

##### Validating data

> Booster uses the typed nature of GraphQL for ensuring that types are correct before reaching the handler, so you don't have to validate types. There are still business rules to be checked before proceeding with a command. For example, a given number must be between a threshold or a string must match a regular expression. In that case, it is enough just to throw an error in the handler, and then Booster will use the error's message as the response to make it descriptive, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Booster uses the typed nature of GraphQL to make sure that types are correct before reaching the handler, so you don't have to validate types. There are still business rules to be checked before proceeding with a command. For example, a given number must be between a threshold or a string must match a regular expression. In that case, it is enough just to throw an error in the handler, and then Booster will use the error's message as the response to make it descriptive, e.g.
```

Given this command:

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: 'all',
})
export class CreateProduct {
  public constructor(
    readonly sku: string,
    readonly price: number
  ) {}

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    const priceLimit = 10
    if (this.price >= priceLimit) {
      throw new Error(`price must be below ${priceLimit}, and it was ${this.price}`)
    }
  }
}

```

And this mutation:

```graphql
mutation($input: CreateProductInput!) {
  CreateProduct(input: $input)
}

# Variables

{
  "input": {
    "sku": "MYSKU",
    "price": 19.99
  }
}
```

You'll get this response:

```grapqhl
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "price must be below 10, and it was 19.99",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 5,
          "column": 3

>         }

Reviewer: It's a bit weird to send this location info back to the client without context

Author: Than you @javiertoledo, the `line` and `column` here are relative to the mutation itself, not Booster code. But yes, I agree with you that it makes no sense to write that. It depends on how the GraphQL client pretty prints the queries so I'll remove the location from the example

Reviewer: Yes, I mean, if you copied that from a real request, the @boostercloud/booster-core team would want to revisit it to build a nicer interface or at least create an issue to solve it in the future 😜

      ],
      "path": [
        "CreateProduct"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> There could be situations in which you want to register an event representing an error. (TODO: Example here, I've seen the example of the error event in the integration tests, but I'm not 100% it works here. I'm thinking in a stock error related to an item that should not be there initially)

Reviewer: Should we put this TODO here? I think it'll be rendered in the docs... You can use HTML comments to avoid showing it (or create an issue):

```suggestion
There could be situations in which you want to register an event representing an error. <!-- TODO: Example here, I've seen the example of the error event in the integration tests, but I'm not 100% it works here. I'm thinking in a stock error related to an item that should not be there initially -->
```

Author: No, this PR is actually a draft because of those TODOs, I'll continue working on this.

Reviewer: Oh, sorry, I didn't realize it was a draft until now :trollface:

### 1. Command and command handlers

> Booster is different than MVC frameworks in which you typically implement controller classes with the five CRUD methods per model. Instead of that, you define commands, which are the user actions when interacting with an application. This approach fits very well with Domain-Driven Design. Depending on your application's domain, some examples of commands would be: `RemoveItemFromCart`, `RatePhoto`, `AddCommentToPost`, etc. Although, you can still have `Create*`, `Delete*`, or `Update*` commands when they make sense.

Author: @NickSeagull I think the sentence is correct, we could also say `Depending on the domain of your application, some examples...` but I do prefer that's longer

> Booster is different than MVC frameworks in which you typically implement controller classes with the five CRUD methods per model. Instead of that, you define commands, which are the user actions when interacting with an application. This approach fits very well with Domain-Driven Design. Depending on your application's domain, some examples of commands would be: `RemoveItemFromCart`, `RatePhoto`, `AddCommentToPost`, etc. Although, you can still have `Create*`, `Delete*`, or `Update*` commands when they make sense.

Reviewer 2: Nevermind, got confused by the use of the apostrophe

There is an architectural splitting between commands and command handlers though they *live* under the same file. The command is the class with the `@Command` decorator, and the generated method called `handle` is the command handler. That is because Booster adopts several concepts from functional programming; the separation between data structures and data transformations is one of them. In Booster a command looks like this:

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: 'all' | Array<RoleClass>
})
export class CommandName {
  public constructor(readonly fieldA: SomeType, 
                     readonly fieldB: SomeOtherType,

>                      /* as many fields as needed */) {}

Author: Sure!!

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    // Validate inputs
    // Run domain logic
    // register.events([event1,...])
  }
}
```

> Every time you submit a command through the GraphQL API, Booster calls the command handler function for the given command. The Commands are part of the public API so that you can define authorization policies for them. They are also the place for validating input data before registering events into the event store because they are immutable once there.

Author: Thank you, my friend, may I ask what the part you liked the most is?

> Every time you submit a command through the GraphQL API, Booster calls the command handler function for the given command. The Commands are part of the public API so that you can define authorization policies for them. They are also the place for validating input data before registering events into the event store because they are immutable once there.

Reviewer 2: I like how you walk the user from the entry point (GraphQL) to the use case validation/registration

#### Commands naming convention

Semantic is very important in Booster as it will play an essential role in designing a coherent system. Your application should reflect your domain concepts, and commands are not an exception. Although you can name commands in any way you want, we strongly recommend you to name them starting with verbs in imperative plus the object being affected. If we were designing an e-commerce application, some commands would be:

- CreateProduct
- DeleteProduct
- UpdateProduct
- ChangeCartItems
- ConfirmPayment
- MoveStock
- UpdateCartShippingAddress

> Additionally, commands must be within the commands directory of the project source: `project-root/src/commands`.

Author: Changed, let me know your thoughts now

```text
project-root
├── src
│   ├── commands <------ They must be here
│   ├── common
│   ├── config
│   ├── entities
│   ├── events
│   ├── index.ts
│   └── read-models
```

#### Creating a command

The preferred way to create a command is by using the generator, e.g.

```shell
boost new:command CreateProduct --fields sku:SKU displayName:string description:string price:Money
```

The generator will automatically create a file called `CreateProduct.ts` with a TypeScript class of the same name under the commands directory. You can still create the command manually. Since the generator is not doing any *magic*, all you need is a class decorated as `@Command`. Anyway, we recommend you always to use the generator, because it handles the boilerplate code for you.

Note:
> Running the command generator with a `CommandName` already existing, will override the content of the current one. Soon, we will display a warning before overwriting anything. Meantime, if you missed a field, just add it to the class because in Booster, all the infrastructure and data structures are inferred from your code.

#### The command handler function

> Booster generates the command handler function as a method of the command class. That function is called by the framework every time that one instance of this command is submitted. This is the right place to run validations, return errors, query entities to make decisions and register relevant domain events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Booster generates the command handler function as a method of the command class. This function is called by the framework every time that one instance of this command is submitted. The command handler is the right place to run validations, return errors, query entities to make decisions and register relevant domain events.
```

###### Throw an error

There are still business rules to be checked before proceeding with a command. For example, a given number must be between a threshold or a string must match a regular expression. In that case, it is enough just to throw an error in the handler, and then Booster will use the error's message as the response to make it descriptive, e.g.

Given this command:

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: 'all',
})
export class CreateProduct {
  public constructor(
    readonly sku: string,
    readonly price: number
  ) {}

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    const priceLimit = 10
    if (this.price >= priceLimit) {
      throw new Error(`price must be below ${priceLimit}, and it was ${this.price}`)
    }
  }
}

```

And this mutation:

```graphql
mutation($input: CreateProductInput!) {
  CreateProduct(input: $input)
}

# Variables

{
  "input": {
    "sku": "MYSKU",
    "price": 19.99
  }
}
```

You'll get something like this response:

```grapqhl
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "price must be below 10, and it was 19.99",
      "path": [
        "CreateProduct"
      ]
    }
  ]
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: That moment when you didn't know about this and yet you coded part of the exception handling 😂

###### Register error events 

There could be situations in which you want to register an event representing an error. For example, when moving items with insufficient stock from one location to another:

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: [Admin],
})
export class MoveStock {
  public constructor(
    readonly productID: string,
    readonly origin: string,
    readonly destination: string,
    readonly quantity: number
  ) {}

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    if (!this.enoughStock(this.productID, this.origin, this.quantity)) {
      register.events(new ErrorEvent(`There is not enough stock for ${this.productID} at ${this.origin}`))
    } else {
      register.events(new StockMoved(/*...*/))
    }
  }

  private enoughStock(productID: string, origin: string, quantity: number): boolean {
    /* ... */

>   }

Reviewer 2: I know that this is just an example, but probably the user will want to write a `fetchEntitySnapshot` call here, which returns a promise.

Therefore the call on the `handle` method should be `await`ed.

Feel free to ignore this 😂

##### Reading entities

Event handlers are a good place to make decisions, and for making better decisions, you need information. There is a Booster function called `fetchEntitySnapshots` within the `Booster` package and allows you to inspect the application state. This function receives two arguments, the `Entity` to fetch and the `entityID`. Here is an example of fetching an entity called `Stock`:

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: [Admin],
})
export class MoveStock {
  public constructor(
    readonly productID: string,
    readonly origin: string,
    readonly destination: string,
    readonly quantity: number
  ) {}

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    const stock = await Booster.fetchEntitySnapshot(Stock, this.productID)
    if (!this.enoughStock(this.origin, this.quantity, stock)) {
      register.events(new ErrorEvent(`There is not enough stock for ${this.productID} at ${this.origin}`))
    }
  }

  private enoughStock(origin: string, quantity: number, stock?: Stock): boolean {

>     return stock !== undefined && stock.countByLocation[origin] >= quantity

Reviewer 2: `countByLocation[origin]` could also be `undefined`, perhaps something like this?

```suggestion
  const count = stock?.countByLocation[origin]
  if (count) {
    return count >= quantity
  }
  return false
```

Reviewer 3: to the Nick's suggestion, I would add `count > 1` because if count was -1 the condition would still be true

Reviewer 3: or event something like

`const hasStock = stock?.countByLocation[origin] > 0`

Author: Sure @NickSeagull @tainguyenbui thank you for the feedback, we can use the `!!` idiom to keep the snippet short

```typescript
  private enoughStock(origin: string, quantity: number, stock?: Stock): boolean {
    const count = stock?.countByLocation[origin]
    return !!count && count >= quantity
  }
```

Take into account how we calculate the stock is not that important here as how we fetch and use entities within a command handler. It is important to pay attention to these details but it is also to save extra efforts to our readers.

Let me know your thoughts 👍

Reviewer 2: What does `!!` do? Is there a documentation page for it?

Author: LOL :) that's a typical ruby pattern to make a boolean expression from something falsy or truly, and it seems it is being used in TypeScript too https://stackoverflow.com/a/49792111

  }
}
```

##### Registering events

> After a command handler execution, it is possible to register domain events. The command handler function receives the `register` argument, so within the handler, it is possible to call `register.events(...)` with a list of events. For more details about events and the register, see the [`Events`](#2-events) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a command handler execution, it is possible to register domain events. The command handler function receives the `register` argument, so within the handler, it is possible to call `register.events(...)` with a list of events. For more details about events and the register parameter, see the [`Events`](#2-events) section.
```

#### Submitting a command

Booster commands are accessible to the outside world as GraphQL mutations. GrahpQL fits very well with Booster's CQRS approach because it has two kinds of operations: Mutations and Queries. Mutations are actions that modify the server-side data, as the commands are.

Booster automatically creates one mutation per command. The framework infers the mutation input type from the command fields, e.g., given this `CreateProduct` command:

```typescript
@Command({
  authorize: 'all',
})
export class CreateProduct {
  public constructor(
    readonly sku: Sku,
    readonly displayName: string,
    readonly description: string,
    readonly price: number
  ) {}

  public async handle(register: Register): Promise<void> {
    register.events(/* YOUR EVENT HERE */)
  }
}
```

Booster generates this GraphQL mutation:

```text
mutation CreateProduct($input: CreateProductInput!): Boolean
```

> where `CreateProductInput` is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where the schema for `CreateProductInput` is 
```

#### Commands naming convention

Semantic is very important in Booster as it will play an essential role in designing a coherent system. Your application should reflect your domain concepts, and commands are not an exception. Although you can name commands in any way you want, we strongly recommend you to name them starting with verbs in imperative plus the object being affected. If we were designing an e-commerce application, some commands would be:

- CreateProduct
- DeleteProduct
- UpdateProduct
- ChangeCartItems
- ConfirmPayment
- MoveStock
- UpdateCartShippingAddress

Despite you can place commands, and other Booster files, in any directory, we strongly recommend you to put them here `project-root/src/commands`. Having all the commands in one place will help you to understand your application's capabilities at a glance.

```text
project-root
├── src

> │   ├── commands <------ They must be here

Reviewer 2: Given that we've changed the text, we should probably change it here

```suggestion
│   ├── commands <------ They should be here
```
